[MUSIC]
In this video, we're going to look at
performing calculations with Named Ranges.
And to help us,
we're also going to introduce two great
functions called COUNTIFS and SUMIFS.
Zara's first calculation is she
needs to update the late charge.
It turns out as well as the Penalty Rate,
there's a $2 a day flat rate for
overdue invoices.
She's also been asked not to put
the flat rate anywhere in the worksheet.
The problem is we still want to
keep that single point of entry.
Well, we can use a named
range to solve this.
So we're going to come back to our
name manager on our formulas tab.
And we're going to click the new
button to add a new range.
And we're going to call it "flat_rate".
We do not however wish it to refer
to a particular cell in the sheet.
So I'm going to remove all of this and
instead I'm going to
just put the number two.
This is called a constant because
unlike a cell which can vary,
this is always going to be two.
And then we say OK, you'll see our flat
rate has been added and we can say close.
Let's go and change our calculation now.
So I'm going to double-click into N5,
and
then after Penalty Rate
I'm going to type plus.
And then take my over due by and multiply
by my flat rate, but I can't click on it.
Here's what makes Named
Ranges really great.
If I type "fl" for flat_rate, it actually
comes up in my auto complete and
I can just press tab to finish
that off and press enter.
My flat rate has been added and
I can double-click to copy that down.
So that was a slightly unusual
use of Named Ranges, but
it can be very useful for conversion rates
or values you just don't want people to
see but you want to include
them in your calculations.
Let's look at a more typical use
of Named Ranges in calculations.
We're going to now come to
our Recon Analysis sheet and
this is where Zara actually needs to start
comparing the values in the two sheets.
And the first thing she
needs is a bottom line.
What does the supplier say we paid?
What does our system say we paid?
So we're going to need to add
up the amount in each sheet, but
we haven't actually put a Named
Range in the supplier statement.
So the first one we're going to do, you'll
see how it looks without Named Range.
So clicking in B3,
we're going to type "=sum".
Then tab to just open your bracket,
but now I have to go and
select the data from a different sheet.
So I'm going to click on to
the supplier invoice statement.
I'm going to come to the top
of my amount column.
Click on Q2 and you could drag down but
it's much quicker to press
Ctrl+ Shift+ Down Arrow.
And then really important,
do not click back into recon analysis,
press enter.
That has worked but
it's quite a simple calculation and
it was fairly fiddly to create.
And you can see resulting formula
is quite long and quite ugly.
Let's see a very similar calculation but
this time using a Named Range.
So in B4, we're going to type "=sum"
and tab to open our brackets but
now we don't have to
click into that sheet.
We can just type the Named Range.
So am down arrow twice and tab.
Didn't even have to use my mouse,
lovely formula as a result.
Press enter, job done.
Now as our calculations get more complex
and the more we're pulling data from
different sheets and particularly when
we then start adding dollars on as well.
Our Named Ranges make our calculations
much more elegant and much quicker.
Let's look at another example.
So the next thing I want to do and I'll
just click back into my invoice report for
a moment is we want to find out how many
invoices were generated from Sydney and
how many from Melbourne.
So, really what I want to do is count how
many times the word Sydney appears in my
location column.
And the function that will help
me with this is my COUNTIFS.
So coming back to my recon analysis,
make sure B8 is selected and
we're going to type "=cou".
And there're quite a lot
of count functions.
You'll notice there's a COUNTIF
singular and a COUNTIFS plural.
COUNTIF singular only allows for
a single criteria,
whereas COUNTIFS plural
is the newer one, 127 criteria.
So let's use that one.
I'm going to double-click.
The first thing the COUNTIFS wants to
know is which column am I checking?
And in this case, it's the location.
So I'm going to just type "loc"
because I've named it and tab.
Then a comma and it says, "fine,
I'm going to look in the location column.
What am I looking for?"
We're looking for the word Sydney and
then press enter.
And when I copy that down,
there's my total invoices for Melbourne.
Similar to the COUNTIFS,
there's also a function called SUMIFS.
And that's what we're going to need for
our next example where we actually want to
add up the amounts for
Sydney and Melbourne.
So it's similar, but
when it finds the word Sydney,
it's actually going to add up the
corresponding amount in the Amount column.
Back in our recon analysis,
we're going to click in to C8 and
we're going to type "=sum" and
choose SUMIFS and tab.
Now the SUMIFS requires an additional
argument because it needs
to know the column you're going to add and
this is our Amount Paid.
So I'm just going to "am", down arrow
twice and tab, then type a comma.
Now it's very similar to the COUNTIFS.
I need my criteria range,
which is my location and
I need my criteria here,
which is Sydney, press enter.
Double-click to copy down.
So what we've seen there is that by
using Named Ranges in our calculations,
we actually make them easier to create and
the resulting function itself
much easier to understand.
We also introduced two functions for
aggregating data, the COUNTIFS and
the SUMIFS.
Take a moment to check out the toolbox,
which also introduces you to
the AVERAGEIFS, MAXIFS and MINIFS.